---
Date Created: "2025-02-10 19:14"
Source: 
Category: 
Parent:
---
### [[1.1.1 LCI]]: raw data
Carbon calculations usually start with databases that document the emissions and environmental impacts of products and production processes. Raw measurements and data is recorded in [[1.1.1 LCI]] (lifecycle inventory) databases. [[1.1.1 LCI]] databases may consist of [[1.3.2 EIO-based Data]], in which case estimations are made based on economic sector, or [[1.3.1 Process-based Data]], in which case direct measurements from each step in the production process are taken.

### [[1.1.2 LCIA]]: impacts of raw data
The [[1.1.1 LCI]] databases are then interpreted into [[1.1.2 LCIA]] (lifecycle inventory assessment) databases, during which the environmental impacts of production are calculated.

### [[1.1.2 LCIA]] -> [[1.2.1 LCA]]: allocation of impacts
In order to process information from [[1.1.2 LCIA]]s to [[1.2.1 LCA]]s (lifecycle assessments) of specific products or services, it is often necessary to employ an [[1.4 Allocation Method]] in the case where the [[1.1.1 LCI]] and [[1.1.2 LCIA]] documented data from multi-functional production processes. In the case where production processes of the individual products are inseparable, impacts can be allocated to the products either with [[1.4.2 Economic Allocation]] or [[1.4.1 Physical Allocation]]. [[1.4.1 Physical Allocation]] is the preferred method where allocation is based on properties such as mass or volume. Where such a relationship cannot be established, [[1.4.2 Economic Allocation]] assigns impacts to products based on their economic values.

[[1.2.1 LCA]]s relating to specific buildings often employ [[1.5.1 Attributional Analysis]], where the market conditions are assumed to remain constant from time of measurement to time of construction. When dealing with regulations or decisions that have broader market impacts, it is common to use [[1.5.1 Consequential Analysis]] to take market impacts into account.

### [[1.2.1 LCA]]: product impacts
[[1.2.1 LCA]]s of specific building products and services can be used to make comparisons and design decisions. It is important that the [[1.2.1 LCA]]s of the products being compared have equivalent scope and that the products have the same [[1.6.2 Functional Unit]], meaning they are interchangeable without sacrificing building performance. Most building materials, however, use [[1.6.1 Declared Unit]]s when referencing their impacts, which are physical material quantities such as volume and mass without functional attributes. The [[1.6.2 Functional Unit]] is then up to the designer to determine.

[[1.2.1 LCA]]s are used both internally within companies and verified and shared by third parties. Companies may have products labeled based on their environmental performance. When verified by a third party to meet specific metrics, products are labeled [[1.8.1 Certified Green]]. Otherwise, a third party may verify the [[1.2.1 LCA]] process and results of the product to help publish an [[1.8.3 EPD]] for the product containing its environmental impact data. Companies may also conduct internal analysis on individual aspects of a product to label it with [[1.8.2 Self-Declared]] green attributes.

### [[1.2.2 WBLCA]]: building impacts
As a building goes through its design phases, an increasingly detailed [[BoM]] (bill of materials) is constructed. By linking each material with its [[1.2.1 LCA]] data, a simple analysis of the [[1.2.5 Embodied Carbon]] of a building is calculated. A [[1.2.2 WBLCA]] will also require data on [[1.2.6 Operational Carbon]], with are measured separately in terms of energy consumption, material refurbishment, and replacement. 

## [[1.2.4 CED]]s and [[1.2.3 LCCA]]s
[[1.2.4 CED]]s and [[1.2.3 LCCA]]s are not to be confused with [[1.2.1 LCA]]s, although they often track similar scope and life cycles for a studied product. [[1.2.4 CED]]s track the energy consumption of the product within its life cycle, while [[1.2.3 LCCA]]s track its costs.